You probably already know that a rainbow does not consist of seven colors. Isaac Newton
chose seven colors because it was mystical, it was related to seven musical notes, and
the seven days that he thought God needed to make the earth.
You probably already know that colors flow into each other. In contrast to this projection
there is no pure red, or pure orange. In a real rainbow you see all wavelengths
who are in between
But what you might not know is that a rainbow does not disappear after red and violet. The
electromagnetic wavelength goes a little bit in the invisible parts of it
spectrum. Not very far: water absorbs infrared and ultraviolet. But you can see
in what is an absorption spectrum that will let liquid water through - and thus
Bringing to a rainbow - wavelengths just outside the frequency we can see.
If you take a picture with a camera with UV-sensitive film, you can still have a bright beam underneath
see violet. And there are people who do not wear lenses. They can
still see, with strong glasses on, but the filtering of UV light that the lens does is gone.
So they can also see that extra bar. A little further, in the National Gallery, are paintings
by Claude Monet, who underwent surgery in his life that removed the lens from his eye
therefore there is a fierce discussion that his paintings were brighter and bluer afterwards,
the result of the almost UV light he could see at the time.
There is one question: why does water only pass through the light
that we can see? If it were something else, water would be cloudy for us, maybe we are constantly being hit
by bright UV light, and then life would be very different. The answer
is of course that it is no coincidence: for hundreds of millions of years, our predecessors
these possibilities evolved. Our forces ensure that water is transparent in some
wavelengths, so that we can see those waves is a big advantage in life. The species
what we descended from would have had a much better chance of surviving if they could see those waves.
Imagine that you can not look through the rain. Those who can not see those wavelengths,
will die sooner. Repeat that for a whole bunch of generations and here
are we: we create our own rainbows.